- Hello, YouTube.
Hello, live stream watchers.
So great to have you here.
If you have questions or thoughts,
put them into the live chat
and we'll try to make them part of the show.
Hey, Cecil.
- Hey, what's going on?
- Hey, it's great to see you.
Let me put our names back.
I was just doing some work with our StreamYard here
and our names had disappeared.
So now people know you're Cecil.
And I'm Michael.
So yeah, it's great to have you here on the channel.
And it's gonna be fun to just sort of chat
about past, future, present.
I see you're wearing the C# shirt.
>> Yeah, I decided to wear this today.
Also, this is a vintage shirt,
like you can't get these anymore.
I think this was from,
I want to say Xamarin Evolve,
back before Xamarin was a Microsoft company,
they had a conference called Xamarin Evolve and they used to
give out swag and bags and stuff.
I got this shirt and I try to only wear it on special occasions
because I want to preserve it for as long as I can,
because I know I'm not going to get another one.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- I figured today was a special occasion, I'll wear it today.
- Yeah, for sure, for sure.
I got my Vivaldi shirt on today,
which is, should have brought my Python ones.
Anyway, I'm super excited to have you back on the show.
You've been on the show a couple of times.
You know, we talked about live streaming of all things.
And you know, some of my live stream setup
is actually thanks to you,
because you blazed the trail, which is awesome.
You and it was Brian Clark, right?
Who had been doing your Python live stream, right?
- Yeah, yeah, back when Brian and I were both at Microsoft,
we were doing a Pi Weekly Live is what it was called.
We were just kind of looking at Python
from a perspective of people that don't do Python
for a living or I don't push Python to production
or I don't maintain Python open source libraries,
but it's still a cool language and we wanted to learn it
and we wanted to learn in public.
And I think as advocates or pretty much just as anyone,
I think now like learning in public is a great way
to not only help yourself, but also help the community too.
- It is, and putting yourself out there in that way.
I think it's scary, especially when you're brand new,
you're like, "Oh, I've been doing this for a few weeks,
"I'm gonna look really bad."
But at the same time, you learn that people wanna help you
and other people who are also having the same problems
really appreciate that.
So that was a really cool episode.
And we also talked about developer relations
and what the heck is that with you and Paul Everett
and some other folks as well.
So anyway, welcome back.
This time we're gonna be talking about
what may seem initially like a bit of a weird topic
for the Talk Python show.
And that's somewhat .NET.
So what we're gonna talk about is
really reaching out to folks who are experts in C#
and .NET, hence your shirt,
and saying, look, Python is this excellent language as well.
and it seems really like such a different ecosystem,
such a different language, such a different tool chain,
like almost all the axes,
it looks really weird from a .NET perspective, right?
And I think it's gonna be super fun to explore those.
I want people listening to take this
from a slightly different perspective.
Obviously, if you're a C# or .NET person,
that's a really focused conversation,
but what about the teams who are doing Java
and they're looking at Python?
or the teams who are doing C++ and looking at it, right?
I think this could be a sort of a stand-in or a prototype
for how people coming from other technologies
coming into Python might evaluate it and perceive it
and think about it.
- Yeah, I think so too.
And one of the things that,
so first of all, I want to tell folks,
this is not like a,
my language is better than your language
kind of conversation.
- Fight.
- We're all friends here.
We all like each other.
But I always find that,
if you kind of look through like the history
of programming languages,
like we all kind of evolved together, right?
Like we all borrow features from each other,
whether it's libraries or, you know,
actual language core features or whatever the case is.
And, you know, it's always interesting to see folks
when they're like, oh, your language can do that too,
so can mine.
And so now that kind of just makes them
a little bit more relatable, right?
'Cause you're like, okay, well,
I know how that works for me.
So now maybe I can pick up your language a little bit easier
because I already know like that particular concept,
you know?
- I totally agree.
And it's not a one-way street either.
- Yeah, exactly.
- For example, we in Python have async and await,
thank you to C#,
but C# has generators and yield return,
thank you to places like Python, right?
So there's like this sort of give and take,
which I think is quite interesting.
So the first- - The first thing that-
- Yeah, go ahead. - C# has,
I don't know if you know, I think it was in C# 9.
I might be mistaken.
I think it was C# 9. - C#, by the way,
if you're not following it, it has many versions.
This is actually an interesting thing to discuss
as we get into it later.
So C# 9, this is like a lot of releases, yeah?
- Yeah, I think C# 9 was two years ago, two years ago.
Right, so last year's version was C# 10
and then C# 11 is gonna be released in November of 2022.
So yeah, like Michael said, there's a lot of versions.
But I kind of wanted to follow up on that last point
you made about Async/Await because another feature too,
which is one I actually really appreciate
is records.
So when I think about records,
I almost think about like data classes in Python.
- Yeah, they're very similar, yeah.
- Yeah, I think about like these immutable classes,
these immutable types that I have,
and essentially like their job is really
just to pass information back and forth.
But I want to say, I feel like Python had that first.
Because again, .NET got that like two years ago.
I'm not sure how old data records are.
- Oh yeah, data classes, I believe are older than two years,
but yeah, I'm pretty sure,
but yeah, I don't totally remember the exact release number it was.
>> Yeah.
>> We have a lot of releases too.
We just put them as point releases,
3.7, 3.8, 3.9.
Now, let's start this conversation from a perspective of a C# developer.
Now, imagine you don't know a lot about Python.
You do know a lot about both languages, just to be clear,
and as do I. I actually have
a ton of experience in.NET before I got into Python.
But let's imagine that you don't know a lot about Python
and you're thinking about,
maybe I just really need to either,
I'm going to get a new job
and it's not the same technology I was working in.
This is a Python place
and I've been doing .NET at my company.
Or you're just thinking, more like I was,
it's like, gosh, I kind of need to diversify
my technology and my career experience
and not put all the eggs in one basket sort of thing.
and really actually love that change.
But think about what are the things that you really love
about working in C# and .NET and you're like,
I just, if I had to leave this feature
or this language thing behind,
it would nearly kill me to do so.
- Yeah, I think for me,
and it's almost not so much so for me about like the language
'cause like you mentioned before,
We've had the opportunity to play around with a lot of
different languages and see how the world works.
For me, it's the tooling.
From a.NET developer perspective, it's the tooling.
>> The tooling and the libraries.
>> The tooling, the libraries,
and the integrations with some of
the other ecosystem that surrounds.NET
that makes it really useful for me.
I'll give you an example.
For.NET developers, you may already know this,
but we have project types that are based on
and CS projects and solution files and things of that nature,
where I know some folks might look at and be like,
"Oh man, why did my project have all of these different files?"
And there's so much stuff just to do like a Hello World or simple project.
But then I look at that as, "Okay, well,
I know where the root of my project is."
I know there's a very standard way to define what are my dependencies,
and what are the different projects that denotes,
I guess sub-projects in that larger solution.
Whereas one of the things that hurt me a little bit,
as you look at other languages and not just Python,
but if you look at JavaScript and Go and some of these other ones,
I'm like, "Okay, well, how do I know where's the roots?
Then how do I have multiple projects?"
Or I guess you could call them multiple components
for that same project or multiple pieces.
But I want them in the same folder and I want when I hit "Build" or "Run",
that all of them run or the right subset of them run.
I maybe have a web front end and
some API back end and they
both need to be running that type of thing.
>> Right. For me, one of the things I love about Visual Studio,
back when I was on Windows because
I don't use Windows as much anymore,
I used to be able to select multiple projects to start,
like when I started debugging session.
Whenever I hit F5,
famous F5, start and run and do all that types of stuff.
Now, I'll have multiple projects running.
It can be, like you said,
my web API or my backends,
or I have a Xamarin thing that's running or whatever the case is.
But now they're all running and debugging at the same time in
the same solution because again,
the editor knows what products are a part of this.
It knows what the dependencies are.
It knows what ports they're running on and all that types of stuff.
Whereas again, if I walk away from that world a little bit,
I feel like now that becomes like a manual process and I have to
write scripts or YAML files.
>> Yeah. Well, let me riff on that for a minute.
So often what you'll see in the tutorials and stuff,
the getting started stories in the Python space
is create a blank Python file called app.py,
main.py, whatever, and write this bit of code.
And the sort of starting structure
that is presented to you is, it's almost wholly absent.
If you're gonna build a web app,
you have to figure out, well, where do the static files go?
Where is the JavaScript?
How do I align that?
What do I do with my view templates versus just,
it's completely unstructured, right?
And I think that that is the world
that's presented to a lot of people.
And keeping with my opening theme,
if you're coming from a place
where there's a lot of guidance through the tooling,
you may see that and want to just run in horror and go,
I've been shot back to the 80s, what has happened to me?
I don't want this, I don't need this, why am I here?
But as you dig deeper, if you want to opt into those things,
they do exist in a much more sort of decentralized,
by choice, go hunt them down way.
And that's like, if you want a lot of structure,
you could use cookie cutter to generate
very structured projects.
So much so that I think a lot of the cookie cutters
are overly specific.
you end up, you know, I don't really need
two layers of Redis, one layer of Redis was enough.
Like, why is all this stuff here?
People get carried away with it.
But you can generate those types of like,
here's the pieces and it's really structured
how they fit together.
You can use things like PyCharm to create a project
that might have a little bit of structure.
They very rarely have much, but a little bit.
But none of that is presented to you in a way
that is discoverable in the first week.
- Yeah. - Right?
If you're brand new, you're like,
I'm here at this one file, that's what the tutorial says.
Why is it all in one file anyway?
Shouldn't this be broken up?
- Yeah, and to that point,
and I just want to say like,
there's like pros and cons to each of those approaches.
'Cause like you mentioned before,
one of the things that I could say I love about Python
is the fact that I could just get started with one file.
- Yeah. - Right?
And that getting started experience
and that evolvability of the language,
I think is important, right?
And I think that's one of the reasons
why people like latch onto it so much.
because my barrier to entry is like extremely low.
It is literally like a file and whatever Python runtime
that you have on your machine.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah, and that's a huge attraction for many people
coming into the ecosystem from what I can see
from talking to a lot of people is, right?
I'm a biologist and I learned that if I write
these five lines into a text file, I can now do magic.
Whereas if you've got to learn about public static void
classes, namespaces, compiling, linking.
You're like, "Wait a minute, I'm not a programmer.
This is not for me."
- Yeah, exactly.
And when I think about that, right?
Like if I think about like the structured nature
of Visual Studio style projects and .NET projects
and C# projects, and like you mentioned,
like the Python projects and even the cookie cutter stuff
and whatever the case is,
I have to kind of look at the history and see like,
oh, well, what space did these ecosystems kind of evolve in?
>> When I think about that.NET Ecospace,
and for folks that are listening,
that's mostly where I spent a lot of
my time in terms of my career coming forward.
I think about schools and enterprises
and big companies that need structure.
Give me the structure and then I'll add
the bits and pieces that I need going forward.
When I think about Python,
and again, if I'm wrong, please correct me.
I think about folks that are doing
like a lot of scientific experiments,
like numeric computations.
And hey, I just want to do these things really quickly.
I don't really need structure,
but I want to like execute experiments.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- Not experiments from the perspective
that the code is not important.
The code is important,
but like it's the task is more important
than the code is, if that makes sense.
- Sure, yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
And so I think there's, that's not always true,
but that's often true.
And I would say there's different areas in where,
like certainly the scientific area,
maybe the data science exploration area,
but even like the DevOps or just the automate stuff
with Python rather than Bash, right?
Like I need to copy these files over here
and then rename them and then put them on S3, right?
That's not a super structured experience,
but Python's really good at it.
And often it's used for it.
- Yeah, and I agree with you when we look at
where both of these languages have come today, right?
If you look at, now .NET is what?
.NET is like 16, 17 years old.
>> 20, I think it's 20.
>> Is it 20?
>> Yeah, I think there was a whole anniversary.
Richard Campbell and crew have been going
on about the anniversary and stuff.
>> Right. If you look at languages 20 years later,
your initial intent was this.
But as the world evolves,
as the world software development evolves,
and then now as developers,
we're looking at attaching onto new work types,
and you're hearing about Kubernetes and
mobile apps and all these types of things.
Now, our languages have to evolve with us,
and you have to evolve with the industry.
Now, some of those initial use cases have expanded and multiplied,
and now we got to take care of
all of these other things now as well.
>> Yeah. Well, that's a big shift, honestly,
that the whole.NET side has
had to come to terms with over the last 10 years,
is the open source, the open sourceification
of this whole sort of commercial side of things.
And let's maybe explore that for a little bit.
'Cause I think there's a lot of interesting variations
and differences and stuff, right?
So Python in a sense was open source
before open source was a thing, right?
It was just, here's the source code, right?
There was no GitHub and PRs
and all of this sort of formal open source structure.
It was just released on Usenet and other places.
Whereas Python, sorry, whereas .NET has been a product
from quite a long time, right?
It was a way to build things in the early days
for like Windows servers and for Windows
and the Microsoft tooling and like,
let's make it really good for developers over there, right?
But that was not released by a bunch of people
contributing in different ways.
it was way more structured.
>> Yeah. Again, when we look at the history of things,
for me, one of the initial intents of.NET
was to make it easier to build apps on Windows specifically.
You think about, well, who's building
Windows applications at that time?
You go back to 2001, 2002.
That's what we're talking about. At that time,
mostly we're talking about desktop applications.
We're thinking about Windows Forms.
the successor to Visual Basic 6 and all of its glorious.
>> Like the drag and drop UIs and all of that types of stuff.
Then eventually that evolved into
WinForms and those types of things.
But still from a very Windows specific perspective.
Then now we forward on to,
I don't know, let's say 2013,
14, 15 and even up until today.
Now the Cloud has become a major thing.
I'll be honest with you,
I'm not a business person and I wasn't in the room,
But I can tell you, anyone that wants to compete in the cloud computing space,
you have to be cross-platform and you almost have to have a more open community
to be able to work with different types of folks and interoperate with different
types of technologies.
Just because of the nature of the landscape of cloud computing, right?
Like you mentioned Redis earlier, right?
Like how do we plug into Redis?
How do we plug into RabbitMQ?
How do I plug into Docker and Kubernetes, right?
A lot of these things have their best experiences
on non-Windows machines.
How do we now plug into that ecosystem and
evolve to follow along with where the rest of the industry is going?
That's why you'll see now.NET is now it's open source.
Now it runs on ARM devices and it runs on the M1 Macs.
>> Yeah, it runs on our Mac.
>> It runs everywhere that you could potentially want it to run.
It runs on, I'm pretty sure it runs on like Apple watches
and on your fridge, if you have a Samsung fridge
and like all these different places,
which is really crazy to think about.
Again, like looking back at the history
of what this thing was initially intended for.
- Sure.
To me, the biggest, maybe two biggest,
two big things that are sort of tied together
that are affected by this different origin story
of Python and .NET really have to do about
what I'll refer to, I guess, as the one true way
versus a thousand flowers blooming
and some of them growing in maybe in the tall trees
or whatever.
And then people's perception of using open source content
versus what is blessed by the project organizer.
Maybe we can think about that for a little bit.
When you're a.NET person,
you go traditionally,
I think this is actually fading a lot,
but traditionally you would go
into Visual Studio and it has a list of projects.
What do you want? I want a web project,
I want a UI, GUI type of project,
I want an API, and then you click it and it goes whoosh,
and a ton of files come out.
and a bunch of linked libraries off to the equivalent of PyPI.
And those are certain frameworks, right?
It says you will use this web framework, ASP.NET, of some variety.
You'll use this data access framework, entity framework probably, of some variety.
Now go.
You start from the assumption of, well, I'm using these frameworks.
Now I get decisions about architecture and other things I bring in and how I build.
Whereas somebody coming from that world into the Python space,
I think they're going to have almost a rude awakening,
both in a beautiful way,
but also not so great,
like a paradox of choice.
So you want to do a project that's a web app?
Okay. First, you begin the web framework selection story,
Flask, Django, Pyramid,
FastAPI, Tornado, and then the next letter down.
Now we begin the data access layer exploration, right?
Is it SQLAlchemy?
Is it SQL model?
Is it some MongoDB thing?
Like you just, every step is great
in that there's a ton of choice and variety.
You don't like one, you pick another one.
But to get started as an experienced person,
that feels like a great option.
As a brand new person, I think that feels like an impediment
and not quite a problem, but almost a problem.
What do you think?
>> I think it definitely gives you a lot to think about.
Because now you have to wonder,
am I making the right choice?
Not only am I making the right choice,
am I making the right choice today?
Is this choice going to grow with me as whatever I'm building,
hopefully grows because hopefully all of our projects are successful.
Hopefully, it will grow with me.
If you go back again to
that Microsoft thing that you're talking about,
Like you said, .NET was not originally open-source and .NET
is a product that was essentially
created to make it easier to build things on Windows.
Now, again, over time,
it's become open-source and now it's in
the Cloud and runs on different devices
and all those types of things.
But I keep going back to this
because the origin story is important.
Because like you said,
Python was almost open-source by default from the beginning.
And so its intent from the beginning was already like,
hey, I have a community of people
that are going to come and latch onto us.
And then we're going to just grow organically together.
Versus I have big company X that's
going to throw millions of dollars in developer time
and research and all these other things to tell you,
this is the right way for me to do things.
Now, I don't think there's a good or a bad way
for either one.
I think at that point, it comes down to us
or you as a developer to sit down and think about,
well, what's really important to me?
How do I really want to build applications?
It's such a funny thing because I like to look at
building software like writing a book or drawing a picture.
You can tell me to write the same app that you write,
but you might write it in a different way.
You might have a different style or
different patterns or different tools that you like to do.
But ultimately, maybe it solves the same problem,
but it looks different because it came from different people.
Just like telling a story,
drawing a picture, whatever the case is.
For some people, the way that they work and
the way that their organization is set up,
you might prefer to be able to pick each and every single piece
of your stack, of your foundation,
and make it look exactly how you want it to look.
With the pieces that you want,
the frameworks you want,
the databases, all that type of stuff.
Or you can go to Microsoft and do
file your project and you can get ASP.NET and ADD framework and
a right-click publish to the cloud and yeah you could just be like okay well
and by the way when you publish the cloud how many vendors
cloud vendors do you get it usually it's it's azure right
i mean if you're talking about visual studio yeah it's
you know yeah published azure right or just being like that that's another
thing that's sort of like strongly encouraged as like one more
choice yeah that's another thing you have to
to think about. Now, for people that are in that space,
if you're in a space of, "Hey,
I just need the template.
I need you to tell me how this thing is structured and
where my dependencies go,
how they're defined, and how the build process works.
All I want to do is just write code and publish,
then sure."
Again, like I said, there's nothing wrong with that.
But then if you're in a space where you want to control
every minute detail of
the development process and the libraries and how they plug in,
Maybe you even want to write some of your own libraries,
to augment some of those additional things that are
in there and do some of that type of stuff.
Then maybe again,
you want to make some different choices.
>> One thing that just occurred to me,
I think is pretty interesting as a difference here is,
you talked about the benefit of all the tooling,
like Boundary Project,
Boom, it gives you all these things.
For people who haven't played with it,
you can get these database visualizers for,
and designers for, say, the classes that are backing
entity framework and things like that.
The presence of those tools is also
a limiting factor. Well, you wouldn't choose
some other database way of working because you're going to lose access to all those
good data integration tools, whereas in our space,
we don't have those to nowhere near to the same degree.
it doesn't matter so much which tools we pick,
whether or not they fit exactly together in that way,
because they're not really available.
So we have more flexibility, I guess,
to say like, actually, I like the API of this one better,
the performance story of this one,
or of course, the maintenance,
how lively the GitHub project is,
is better on this one,
even though it wouldn't traditionally fit exactly.
- Yeah, I think there's definitely something to be said
if you walk into a world where the entire stack is unified.
When I say that, I mean, you know,
I can go into a place and the programming language runs
on the operating system that they built,
that runs in the IDE that they built,
that runs on the cloud that they built,
that runs on the DevOps pipeline, security,
whatever, whatever that they built,
and it all plugs in together.
And so with that integration, like you said,
like you can get a different level of visualization,
a different level of reporting and metrics
on all of that types of stuff with a lot less work, right?
It's not that you can't get it from other places,
but it's just a little bit more work to get it,
you know, to kind of put those puzzle pieces together
to make the world look like how you want it to look.
But like I'm saying-
- Every level is like a decision you have to make
and an integration you have to consider
as opposed to it just by default clicking together.
- Right, and like I said,
just like cloud computing.
I'm going to bring this up because I have a talk
where I talk about something I like to call
like the microservice matrix.
>> Yeah, before you get into that,
I do really quickly want to point out.
Last time you were on the show,
you were Developer Relations
on the Azure team at Microsoft,
and now you're at Stripe.
>> Now I'm at Stripe.
>> Right.
>> We didn't point it out,
I want to point out that you're
not actually at Microsoft anymore.
>> Yeah, I'm not at Microsoft anymore.
There's no backgrounds baseball happening here.
I'm not sharing anything that
I know more about than anyone else at this point.
Yeah, going back to if you think about the world of microservices,
because I look at that as everything that we've
already done just existing on another level.
I'm using that as an analogy
when I talk about this microservice matrix,
because with everything that you do,
you have to make a choice.
Like I mentioned before, where am I going to
store my state, my databases?
I have to make a choice.
How am I going to do metrics and monitoring?
How do I know where my services are?
How does my DNS routing situation work?
I have to make a choice.
How does Ingress work? I have to make a choice.
How do I do publish, subscribe?
I have to choose a thing.
Now you're sitting down having to make some of
these decisions about what's the right way for me to compose my app,
and then also what are the right combinations
of tools that I'm going to compose it with?
If we come back now to the level of just talking about Python and .NET,
again, it's a very similar thing where you can just say,
"Hey, just give me the menu,
the GUI, file new block and there's a thing."
Or I could sit down and I could fine-tune and optimize
my application to perfection or what we consider to be perfection,
to run and work and have
the right integrations of things that I wanted to have.
Like I'm saying, there's no wrong way.
It's just a matter of like for your business
and what you're trying to do,
like what do you think makes the most sense?
- Yeah, it certainly is an interesting difference.
Now I do think there are more opinionated paths,
we would call them in the Python world,
that you can choose.
For example, you could say, and many people do,
like let me just use Django.
- Sure.
- Right, and you choose Django,
it's very much this sort of holistic click together stack
that we spoke about, right?
Like the data access layer is the Django ORM,
the database is relational,
you put it in something that could be SQL Server,
but more likely it's Postgres, there you go.
- Yeah.
- Right, but I personally very much appreciate
the ability to look at all those options and go,
no, no, for this one I wanna use FastAPI and Beanie
rather than Django and Django ORM.
>> That's what I'm saying, depending on what your goals are.
I know for you, you have your top Python websites and your courses.
I believe you all have a mobile app too, right?
>> Yeah, we do. That's actually Xamarin.
Shout out to the script. It is.
>> I didn't know that. That's cool.
>> The APIs are all Python,
but the front-end mobile app itself is Xamarin.
>> Is all Xamarin. For your web experiences,
you're already knowing in your mind what your objectives are.
You're like, "Okay, I'm going to use this database and
this caching thing and this thing
because I need them to work this way."
Because the thing with having opinions,
it's always great to have opinions,
but sometimes someone's opinion
just doesn't line up with what you're trying to do.
But then on the other side,
sometimes there's just too many opinions.
Now you're like, "Oh man, can I choose this or this or the other?"
What's the right puzzle piece for me?
there's opinions and then there's opinions within a context.
Right?
And there's a very popular article
that keeps getting passed around and around.
And I'm sure I'm somewhat to blame for this is like,
the title goes something like,
you're not Google, you're not Facebook,
you're not LinkedIn, you're not Instagram.
So subtitle, don't design your software like they do.
Right?
And opinions often mean,
I believe this is how code should be written
if this is your general use case, right?
And if your use case is really different from that,
then those opinions might not just be
someone else's opinion, they might actually be wrong
because they were formed for another situation.
I believe you're having a relational database
and around 100,000 or fewer users a day.
But if it's significantly different
in some other direction,
then maybe you should make different choices, right?
And having that flexibility is awesome.
- Yeah, for sure, for sure.
And then kind of going back to like,
where we're talking about a little bit earlier with the tooling.
Once you've made those choices,
now you have to make the choice of,
well, what's the thing that I'm going to build it with?
Again, on the Microsoft side,
you have Visual Studio, which is like a kitchen sink of stuff.
I can look at my databases,
I can look at my deployments,
I can build, deploy, debug,
analyze memory dumps and all these types of things.
Again, big thing.
Or on the other side,
we probably might want to do some more command line tools,
or we might want to grab a bunch of
different tools and put them together.
Again, all depending on what we're trying to do with our use cases.
I think with that too, what you notice is that the culture
of either side of those languages is a little bit different.
I will tell you as a.NET person,
automatically, it is ASP.NET,
it is NAD Framework,
and it is SQL Server automatically.
I mean, I'm not going to say 100 percent of the people do it,
but I want to say a lot of people do that.
That's the default.
But I'm sure on the Python side,
the culture is probably different.
It's probably a little bit of Mongo or Postgres,
it's probably a little bit of Flask or
Django and probably now FastAPI
because that's another popular thing.
Whatever other tool they put on top of that,
whether it's PyCharm or VS Code or I know a lot of you people love them.
I know you've had a lot of them folks on the show.
It could be that too. But that culture is different.
The expectations about how software is built is going to just be totally different.
>> Yeah. When I opened the segment,
I said there were two things that were closely tied together.
We covered the one. I think a very similar related parallel here
is developers often in the Microsoft space,
my experience I've had interacting with them is like,
If it's not recommended by Microsoft or the .NET team or whatever, I don't want it.
If it's not the product story or the company story that you should use this framework or that,
then even if the other one might be better, might not, they just don't want to consider it.
Which I think is an interesting angle.
It's very much at odds with that you have a thousand choices.
>> Yeah. For me as a.NET developer,
before and during and now after Microsoft,
that's one of those things that's such a hard habit to break.
>> Yeah. Do you agree with my assessment first?
>> I agree with your assessment 100 percent for sure.
I think it's something that particularly when you're
living in an open-source development worlds,
all of us or majority of
us languages and tooling and stuff are open-source.
We have to be able to,
developers still have to develop.
You can't really expect things to always be given to you all the time.
When I say that, I mean,
just because Company X doesn't create a thing for you,
doesn't mean that there's not a ton of other great options available.
But again, the culture or the way that .NET developers have been raised,
If you think about them as evolving over time.
>> Growing up through their career, yeah.
>> Growing up through their time, the way that they've been
raised is that I'm going to open Visual Studio on Windows,
and whatever's in the box, I'm going to use that.
I might be one or two other things that I'll use,
but those things are usually recommended.
If you think about like JSON.NET as an example,
those things are usually recommended from the box,
and then now I'm going to use that.
>> They might actually be third-party,
but they end up getting installed anyway.
>> Exactly.
>> Like a pip dependency effectively.
>> Like a pip dependency or something like that.
I don't remember back when ASP.NET MVC was a thing,
like the first version of it,
like it shipped with jQuery.
Anytime you did file new project MVC,
you automatically you had jQuery,
you had jQuery validation.
I think there was a couple of
other libraries that were in there.
I think jQuery UI maybe might have
been in there or something else like that.
But again, these are the things that
just come out of the box with that style.
I think what happens with that now is that,
and again, this is my opinion,
I think it hampers innovation.
Because now when I look at the Python side,
and we joke about, "Oh my gosh,
there's a new Python web framework
like every other year or every year or whatever the case is."
But I can also look at that and seeing, wow,
people are so invested in
this ecosystem that they're constantly trying to make it better,
and they're constantly trying to pool resources
together to create new experiences to improve developer productivity.
Not to say that people are not
trying to do that on the Microsoft side,
but what I'm saying is that if it's not in the box,
people are like, "I'm not messing with it."
>> Sure. The realm of possibility is wider.
>> We'll just make it. We'll just make it.
Well, we'll make it together, we'll open source it.
If people like it, now we'll start
a community around it and now it's a thing.
Again, like PaaS API and
Pydantic and some of those other things that have come up recently.
- Absolutely.
Okay, so one of the things I did want to talk to you
about here, I think that's really interesting
and FastAPI is a good example of it.
FastAPI basically exists because as you mentioned,
Pydantic and some of the new language features
of Python, W567,
you know, the somewhat enforced typing information,
data classes, those kinds of things,
async and await. So these are now possible. These are these new experiences that can be
created from the language. But one of the really interesting things about languages,
places like C#, or we could just as well say Swift and Apple or other languages, is there's a team of
of people whose job it is to work on the language,
which I think is really interesting.
It has some very good positives.
Like there's people who are constantly focused on it.
I mean, we have the core devs,
but they're kind of more broadly focused.
And sometimes that means the language,
but in the .NET space,
that means the language is always changing.
Maybe if it doesn't even need to.
That's my statement.
You don't have to stand behind that if you don't want,
but I feel like there's people who are working there
Every year there's a new version of the language,
and if there's no new keywords,
then what's their job about?
>> Yeah. For folks that don't know,
.NET as an entire product and family of things,
it's gone through changes over time.
When Michael and I first started doing .NET,
it was .NET Framework.
Then over time, it became like early 2000s.
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> Then it evolved into what today is known as
like .NET Core.
I think that .NET Core went from 1.1 to 3.1 or something like that.
Then after that, we skipped a number, we skipped four.
I don't know why we skipped four, but we skipped four,
and then we went to .NET 5,
not .NET Core 5, but just .NET.
We had .NET Framework,
we had .NET Core,
and now we just have .NET,
nothing else after it, but the number, .NET 5.
and what's happened over time now with.NET 5, 6,
7 and until they decided to call it something else,
what's happened right now is that it's
switched to this yearly release cycle.
I'll be honest with you, I don't know how I feel about it yet.
We're looking at.NET 7 coming up in November.
It's really only been 5 and 6.
We've had two versions that have
been on this yearly release cycle.
I don't think that's enough time for me to
like feel like, you know, see how I feel about it.
- See what the actual effects of that are for sure.
- But you know, my initial thoughts are, you know,
I don't think we really need to release that quickly.
Cause like you said, you know,
one, how many people are going to update every year
or even every two years?
You know what I mean?
And then as you're putting out these new features,
I often have to think about, well, who is this for?
Right?
Cause if one of the goals of your language is adoption
or if it's growth or if it's how do I bring new people in by adding new features?
I can tell you, regardless of how many features you add to make it easier,
when they go to work,
they're going to end up in a code base that's going to be 10 years old.
>> Three flavors of Lambda expression.
>> It's going to look different and it's going to feel different,
and their experience is not going to be Hello World or a to-do application.
and so now the minds, the mental efforts,
so now you have to exist in multiple worlds.
Oh, here's the new cool stuff,
and if you're lucky, maybe you start an accompaniment
that's doing the new cool stuff,
or here's the framework stuff, or the older tooling,
or here's this older version that's still kind of new,
but still doesn't have the things from six or seven.
You know what I mean?
And it's like, well, if I am considering myself a language X developer, how many of these
new language features do I need to know?
It's a really good question.
I mean, let me just give a little bit of background for people who obviously most people listening
probably don't work in C#, but C# like Python has a way to express properties.
Honestly, C#'s way is way better than Python's.
there is a way to do lambda expressions
that's very similar across both languages.
But if you look on the C#,
how many ways are there to do properties?
There's at least four.
There may be five different pieces of language syntax
to accomplish effectively the same thing.
And there are benefits to argue on some of the newer ones,
but so much so that there needs to be a fourth,
not just three ways to do it.
You know what I mean?
Like there's a lot of overhead.
And my feeling is that the language looks that way
because it's a product and there's a team whose job it is
to continue to work on that product.
Whereas like in Python, if it doesn't make sense to add it,
there's nobody who's yearly review doesn't look so good
'cause they didn't add a new way to do properties.
- Yeah, and I agree with you.
I think that's another thing that I feel like
I've really appreciated about the Python ecosystem.
'Cause Python also has like a scheduled cadence of release.
- Yeah, and it's yearly as well now.
>> Yeah. It's not like Python hasn't updated
the language in six years or whatever the case is.
Like you said, there's a single weight and
there's new operators and things of that nature.
But I always find the additions to the language,
I think with the exception of maybe type hints,
I think that might be a little bit more in
your face for a lot of folks if they decide to use it.
But if you look at some of the other language features,
a lot of the times it happens in
the core library and not so much so on the language surface.
and then the few that happen in the language service.
>> Or some package, but you don't have to know about it to consume it,
something like that.
>> Then the things that happen on
the language service are usually very subtle.
We'll have a whole version and it might add one operator.
We might add, again, a sink away.
I mean, it's not really one keyword,
it's one keyword, it's one feature.
But I've added this one big feature,
but then there's tons of other little fixes in the library and not
necessarily what the syntactic structure of my application looks like.
I feel like if you're on modern Python,
I'm going to use a term you use,
if we're on modern Python and you're 3.4 or 5 and above,
I'm sure when you hit Python 3.9,
it's going to look the same, it's going to feel the same,
it's going to work the same.
Might be some extra things,
but you could probably ignore it if you don't need it.
But then you should be able to be
functional and not have to think too much about like,
"Oh, okay. How do I plug this thing into this thing and then,
oh, my thing is not compiling anymore because I don't have the old,
I don't have the new version even though I'm not using
the new version features and all of that type of stuff."
>> Yeah. It's interesting.
I think that we use language as an example,
but I think that influence happens across different many things,
across the web frameworks,
across the database, across the tooling and so on.
All right, a couple of thoughts from the audience here.
- Oh yeah, we have an audience.
- Mr. Hypermatic says, "Hello, looking sharp."
See what I did there?
Loving the shirt.
And then Christopher Tyler has a more actual question here.
Are the contributors to .NET primarily people
who work at Microsoft?
Is that the same for C#?
Like, what's the open source story on that?
We know in Python, like, there's the core devs
and then there's the sort of everyone else.
layering, but that's not nearly as extreme as employee, not employee.
Yeah, I can't talk to the percentages in terms of like what percentages is
Microsoft and what percentage is not.
But I can tell you that, you know, now that it is open source and it's on
GitHub, I mean, there's a tremendous amount of folks that do not work in the
company that not only contribute fixes, but also submit proposals for new
features and like all these types of things.
So I think if you go to, let me see if I could open it up.
I think if you go to GitHub/.net,
and I think if you go to.net/csharp,
I'm not mistaken. No, it's not.csharp.
It's a language proposal thing.
I don't remember what it's called.
>> Right there, maybe.
>> It might be in the runtime. There's a repo in here
that you can essentially submit proposals.
Whenever there's a new version of C# that's coming out,
or if you want to know,
"Okay, well, maybe we should change how interfaces work,"
or how do we add records or whatever cases.
There's a repo in here that you can do that.
I don't remember what it is at the time.
I probably should.
But what I'm saying is that as a person that does not work in
the company you can have that level of influence,
and you can have a whole discussion about,
"Hey, this is why I think this is a great feature.
This is how I think it should look and behave,
and this is how I think it would work with some of
the existing features that are already in the language today.
I love that because that means that now,
you don't work there, I don't work there,
we all don't work there,
but we can have a very open and honest discussion in the public,
because again, it's on GitHub unless they delete it.
But they don't do that.
>> It's not like they own GitHub. Wait a minute.
>> Well, you see what I'm saying. You can have
that open discussion about these are
some of the things I think make a lot of sense.
>> Yeah, and I think that that's really good.
It's certainly a big change that's
happened over the last five years there.
>> I found it. It's .NET has C# lang.
It's not just C#, it's C# lang.
Yeah. If you go there,
you should be able to, again,
like the language is the same.
>> Yeah. The active C# language feature
proposals and meetings and yeah, interesting.
>> Yeah. Some of those meetings,
they're public and they're online.
I know Imo is one of the folks that work on C# in the runtime.
They do API reviews and all these types of things, live stream it.
I don't know if you've ever sat down in an API review,
it's not the most page turning thing to sit down and watch sometimes.
>> But you could if you want.
>> But if you wanted to, if you're interested in that,
if you're interested in language design and compilers
and API surface design and those types of things,
I think those are great things to do.
Because I honestly can't think of any other ecosystem that really does that
from the perspective of like reviewing the actual API in the public, which I think is a great thing.
Yeah, one of the things that's interesting about in the public is I try to listen to all sorts of
different podcasts and try to keep my finger on the pulse of sort of where technology companies and
programming languages and stuff are going. So I listen to some Apple podcasts, some Microsoft
podcast and of course Python podcast. One of the things I find interesting is when you hear the
Apple podcast people talk, it's always about speculation and rumors and there was this leak
and there's this thing and what will we get. You hear the Microsoft people talk and like,
oh there's a hint of this code word, this project and I think this is happening.
that's absent in the Python world, right? There's none of this like sort of fortune-telling
surprise of what's going on. I think that's also a big thing that people coming from
either the .NET or the sort of Swift space over to Python is that we know really far in advance
what's coming and what's not. And the more of the fortune-telling side happens to land on,
well, of these thousand flowers that represent web frameworks,
which one do you think is going to continue to gain popularity?
Right? In that sense, that's a pretty big difference of the ecosystems.
Yeah, I think it kind of goes back to what we were talking about before, right? In terms of culture,
right? Like the culture of Python has always been like an open project that we all kind of
work on together versus, okay, here's a product from Apple or Microsoft. And, you know, I'll date
myself a little bit like I remember when you used to have to wait until like magazines came out
to like learn about like beta features that have like a CD in the back. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know,
you might go to a conference or I don't know go I don't know Barnes and Noble or whatever.
Macworld or MSDN or any of these things. Yeah, right. Like there'll be CDs in the back of
magazines. And that's how a lot of developers back whenever used to be like, oh, okay, this is what's
what's coming out, and you'll read about it, right?
That there wasn't like a YouTube,
like YouTube wasn't a thing for like developer videos
and live streaming, all these things that we do now
where we can get more immediate feedback.
You know, it was, you know, the magazine's gonna go out,
but then think about it,
like how long does it take to print the magazine,
press the CD and put it out?
Like how many things have changed in the product?
- Right, and how far back is the editorial schedule
versus the writing versus, that's months.
>> It could be months. By the time you get that CD,
what's actually in the products on that day
might be like two months difference.
You could change all kinds of stuff.
But what I love again about the culture of where Python has started,
the feedback mechanism is so much
faster and it's been like that by default.
We're talking about.NET and Microsoft,
like you said, it could be Swift,
it could have been Java or whatever the case is.
Now, as these things become open source,
now they're understanding, "Okay,
well, let's shorten the feedback mechanism.
Let's get more immediate responses on things.
Let's allow folks to download them and try them out.
Let's have students that are doing
language design and programming language theory,
try our bits out and work with us and talk about like,
"Oh, okay. Well, I learned this in class.
Now I'm seeing it over here. I understand how this works.
Let's collaborate a little bit closely together."
- Yeah, it's certainly is a different way of working on it.
You don't have to wait until the one thing
has been released.
I was contacted by a guy who was interested
in making some proposal around APIs in Python
and said, here, I want to propose this PEP,
this way of changing Python officially for a new API.
What do you think about this proposal?
well, this is cool, but really,
I think the best way to do it would be
just make a package that accomplishes the same thing,
show that there's traction around it,
and then you could talk about bringing it back in
and sort of like grow it up through the community.
And if it shows enough value,
then all of a sudden you should have this conversation
about should it be officially a part of the thing,
which is almost the reverse of what you're saying.
- Yeah, again, the thing about projects and products, right?
Like when you have a product,
I'm gonna assume you probably have a PM
and your PM is probably gonna do user research.
- I bet your PM has a PM.
- Your PM probably has a PM, right?
To manage all the other PMs, right?
But what I'm saying is that like,
when you're a product, you have resources financially
to be able to do user studies
and talk to customers directly and set up meetings
and gather analytics and like all of these
really cool things, which is great that you could do that.
But when you're a free open source projects,
like your resources, your community.
Like you said, sometimes you just have to build up that culture of,
"Hey, we're going to release a new version to do switch statements in
Python or pattern matching or whatever the case is."
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Let's make it a library first and
evolve it into something a little bit more substantial.
If people are like, "Yo, we love this."
Maybe now that can become a feature.
But the downside of that being, again,
we don't, you know, there's no money engine behind of it.
That might take a little while.
That might take like two or three or four versions
before that actually happens.
- Or it might never happen if no one cares enough, right?
Someone who's actually a contributor to the project
doesn't really, you know, they don't care enough,
but somebody who's using it, they might really care,
but it's not gonna get there
'cause there's sort of a mismatch
and capability of changing it.
You know, I think one of the big things
that's changed recently for us over in Python
is that we've had this thing called
the developer in residence, which Microsoft, Google,
I think also Facebook, should I call them meta?
I think those three groups, hopefully that's right
and exhaustive, have contributed a bunch of money
through sponsorships to actually fund one,
or currently one, but possibly more than one person
whose job it is to just sort of work on Python
around all the rough edges.
And that might sound like the language rough edges,
but what I mean is like,
people are submitting PRs or feature requests
and nobody has time to really review the PR,
like sort of almost project management plus development
to just kind of like be the glue
that keeps the community working together.
And I think that that's actually making a big difference.
That brings it a little bit closer to these things.
There's somebody whose kind of job it is
to bring these features in.
- Yeah, when you think about, again,
a project evolving into something really substantial,
right, like, and I look at Python
as an extremely substantial project,
at some point, like, you're gonna need support, right?
Because now there's like a lot of things
that need to get reviewed or fixed
or discussed and talked about,
and like, whose time is that, right?
Like, who's gonna do that, right?
But like now when the product is at the point where,
well, my business needs this thing to run,
so you better figure it out kind of thing.
At that point, that's why it's so important
for not even just major corporations,
but all of us that use it,
to find a way to contribute in whatever way that we can.
Obviously for bigger companies,
again, they could sign the check,
but for us, can we go ahead and have those discussions
and talk about, well, hey,
well, these are really useful features
and it's useful because of this reason
or because of these use cases,
or these are scenarios that would help us
be more productive, right?
And again, not just say I want stuff,
but let's have a practical conversation about like,
how is it gonna make everyone better, right?
- There's a whole spectrum of that, right?
Like could be just communicating with the project
over issues and stuff to say, this is really important.
Here's our use case.
It could be, hey, I could actually make a PR on this
and contribute a PR to a project you care about.
Or it could just be, I'm gonna write a tutorial
'cause this is really hard to get started with, right?
there's not, or even just documentation with examples.
- Yeah, and you bring up a great example
of documentation, right?
Like I know this is such a cliche thing to say
'cause we've been saying it for years,
but documentation is such, I don't wanna say it easy,
but it's such a great way to get started in open source,
in any open source project,
because I'll tell you the folks that are writing the code
probably don't have a lot of time to write documentation.
- Yeah, and they might not have gotten into the project
because they love documentation.
They might have got in because they really wanted to write the code.
>> Right. When we think about projects,
just like how every language is good at specific things,
people that work on projects are all good at very specific things.
Because I'm a good engineer,
doesn't mean I'm going to be a good manager.
Just because I'm a good engineer doesn't mean I'm going to
be a good docs writer and vice versa.
You know what I mean? I might be able to tell you how to do it,
but the way I communicate that to you,
you might be like, "Yo, dude,
I don't have a PhD, I don't understand anything you just told me, right?
Versus like, okay, someone that can kind of sit in the middle and translate.
Not that we're translating languages, but like, you know, Hey, how can I package
this in a way, how can I put this forward in a way that just makes it more digestible
by whatever particular audience of folks that I'm trying to reach out to.
So again, if we're talking about students or folks in startups or big enterprise
companies, like what are the things that are important to them and then how can I
communicate that to those people?
- Yeah.
- But again, when you're a big company,
like you can pay for that.
Like you can pay people to do that.
Like when you're not-
- Now you're job to do this thing
and you better do it 'cause you have a manager.
- Yeah, exactly, exactly, exactly.
- Yeah.
All right, we're getting short on time here, Cecil,
but I do wanna talk about one thing
that I really admire about the .NET space.
And I think the reason I admire is,
among other reasons,
is I think it really has a lot of relevance
for Python people and that is the whole Blazor thing.
- Oh yeah.
- It's a Blazor.net.
So one of the things that they did over at the .net side
is they came up with this idea of like a standard core
and I've already sort of taken a little,
an inner essence of .net that like,
this is the thing that we should have available everywhere.
and then there's a bunch of stuff that's irrelevant
in certain situations, like,
do you really need a UI GUI framework
when you're on like a fridge?
Maybe do that, but, or, you know,
like you're running just as a backend service on Linux.
You really need a UI framework for that, right?
And so out of that, to some degree came Blazor,
which is basically the runtime
plus the language in the browser.
And we have that really, really close in things like PyIodide
and the core developers have been building CPython really
recently for WebAssembly, which is amazing.
The difference here is this framework
has a front-end framework on top of it
that is like Vue.js or React, but in C# on the browser.
And do you want to just riff on that a little bit?
I think if we had something like this in Python,
I mean, this is basically how do you not have to write JavaScript
on the front end and have something really cool in your language and your runtime.
Yeah, yeah. So kind of like what Michael just said.
So Blazor is the equivalent of
React or Vue or Angular,
but it's dot net for dot net developers.
And the cool thing about it, so I guess just a little bit of a back story.
so Steve Sanderson, I believe is how you say his last name.
He did a talk at NDC,
one of the NDC conferences,
where he showed how you can compile the.NET's runtime,
the actual thing.
.NET runs in a virtual machine,
kind of like how Java does,
the.NET runtime to actually execute a WebAssembly.
Most modern browsers have WebAssembly enabled today.
Again, assuming that you update your browsers,
put them on auto-update,
you shouldn't really have to do a lot to
just get that stuff to work.
Now that means, well,
if I can ship the runtime into the browser,
that means I can run the language in the browser,
which is really cool. What Blazor is,
if you're familiar with.NET and you know what
Razor syntax is like from MVC days.
>> It's like a Jinja for us.
>> Right. It's like a templating language.
If you understand how that templating language functions,
which is essentially C# and code,
just like you said, like Jinja is Python and code.
It's Python and HTML.
Once you understand how that world works,
now you can take those existing skills that you have and now you
could write components that run inside of the browser.
They're 100 percent in the browser because now the runtime,
you've just shipped the runtime like you would like
a JavaScript file like jQuery or whatever the case is,
or your web pack bundle the thing.
You build it and you send it to the browser.
So now it runs there.
So that means, and sometimes people don't believe this,
but what that means is that you could turn off the internet,
and then your app is still functioning,
because the functionality is living in the browser
inside of Blazor, which I think is really cool.
- I think this is really cool.
And I don't really care that much for this type of app,
say as like in my website, although I see uses there,
but Electron, you know, right?
Like if you could get something really rich like this
and then turn it into a proper way to ship rich applications
that are either progressive web apps or electron JS apps,
then you get a whole new avenue of types of apps
that you can write that you wouldn't otherwise be able to.
- Yeah, if you think about,
so one of the things that the .NET team promised
that was gonna come out this year,
hopefully comes out by the time build happens in May,
is .NET MAUI, right?
Like MAUI stands for multi,
>> My gosh, Microsoft Application UI.
Oh my gosh, I don't remember what it is.
>> User interface.
>> User interface thing.
But essentially, Maui is a way that you
could write applications
that exist across a lot of different places.
You can think about macOS desktop,
Windows desktop, Android, iOS, those types of things.
But I can have a single code base,
kind of like Xamarin Forms,
but Xamarin Forms, the new VNX kind of thing.
I bring that up because one of the things that they've promised
that we can do in MAUI is have a Blazor view,
which essentially is Blazor running in MAUI.
That means that if I write a thing in Blazor,
like my Blazor components that run on the web and do the thing,
that means that I should be able to have that code exported
and embedded inside of an app,
and now that app can run across all those other places as well.
>> Interesting.
>> Again, think about the write once run anywhere thing
that we've been chasing for decades, right?
Like we can write the thing in Blazor if we wanted to.
And now it can run not only in the web,
but it can run on mobile, it can run on desktop,
not just Windows desktop, but also macOS desktop.
- You know, mobile even.
- I dream of mobile.
- Yeah, iPhones, iPads, you know,
Samsung tablets and like all those kinds of cool things.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, well, I think we have to leave it there
for our main topics, Cecil, but.
- I feel like we have so much more to talk about.
Like that was, that went by so quickly.
- I know, we could just,
maybe we'll come back and do another follow up episode
if people have a bunch of questions or something.
- Yeah, if folks want to do a part two,
they should let us know, leave a comment
and on the show or whatever the case is.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Mostly the best place to leave comments
is on the YouTube live stream.
I turned off the comments on the episode page
because they were forcing a bunch of third-party tracking
onto our users and I'm like,
I really don't wanna have, you know,
cookie pop-ups and all these things and not just,
yeah, anyway, no more comments on the episode page,
but on the YouTube live stream, absolutely.
Before we get out of here though,
if you're gonna write some code, I guess at this point,
it almost doesn't matter the language,
but C# or Python, what editor are you using?
- I pull out VS Code by default,
only because again, I like to focus, you know what I mean?
And then if there's one IDE that can support multiple languages,
that's what I'm going to do.
So that's really where I'm going to go.
>> Cool, cool.
And I don't know if you have anything off the top of your head,
any Python libraries you want to recommend, have you come across any?
>> I'll be honest with you, I mean, I'm sure folks know about this already,
so I'm not going to say anything different.
But I really want to learn about scikit-learn.
>> Yeah.
>> So it's a machine learning library,
like I'm sure most of your listeners already know about.
but I personally haven't played around with it.
I personally haven't spent too much time at
all in that machine learning space.
>> Yeah, I haven't either. It seems so magical.
If you could crack it, you'd be able to
build just amazing things, right?
>> Yeah. I've been playing around with
just doing data visualizations and stuff like that,
with things like Seaborn or Matplotlib.
But that's just me having data,
wanted to draw charts and graphs and stuff.
>> Nice.
>> What I actually want to do is analyze some of that data
using some of those machine learning libraries.
>> I figured learning a little bit of
machine learning is not a bad idea.
I think that's one of those places that Python really shines.
The ecosystem that it has with Keras,
I think is what one of them is called,
and you think about PyTorch,
and you think about all the other really cool data
analytics and machine learning libraries.
For me, it's just automatic.
I'm going to go to Python and I'm going to do that.
>> Yeah, absolutely. All right.
Now, close us out,
especially speaking to the.NET people
who I may have dragged into this episode.
They're thinking of Python, maybe they'll try it out,
maybe they won't, what would you tell them
coming from their C# background?
- Yeah, I think if you look at one of those
old older Stack Overflow surveys,
they'll always say like Python is like the second language
for a lot of C# developers.
'Cause when you think about it,
Python does a great job at allowing you
to like execute things very quickly, right?
and so far as a .NET developer,
if I need to analyze something,
if I need to spin up a really quick web server
and just do some really quick things,
it's a great additional tool to have.
Now, it's more than just a tool,
but again, if you're a .NET developer, that's your focus,
and you need something else to allow you
to move quickly, allow you to experiment,
allow you to just explore your world
and extend your tool belt a little bit,
I think Python is a great option to do that with.
- Right on.
Well, thanks for being here.
It's always fun to talk to you, and it's
been cool to sort of compare and contrast.
Thanks.
- Thanks for having me, man.
So I really appreciate it.
- You bet.
Bye.